feat: using cosign to sign software artifacts (#68)
mesosphere/d2iq-engineering-blog: content/posts/signing-artifacts-via-cosign/index.md

## What problem does it solve?

Softwares widely consists of distributed artifacts and these artifacts are updated quite frequently. Companies and developers that build on top of these artifacts may expose their users to threats and vulnerabilities. This is where the [digital signature](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_signature) comes to the picture, and by its definition it is an scheme to help users to verify the legitimacy of the downloaded software.

> Two major topics in digitally signing software artifacts are **integrity** and **authenticity**, respectfully ensuring that signed data has not been altered and originates from the signer. While these are quite important, this does not guarantee that the software delivered to the end user is still legitimate. We see why this is the case.
> ## Digital software signature scheme

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two major topics in digitally signing software artifacts are **integrity** and **authenticity**, respectfully ensuring that signed data has not been altered and originates from the signer. While these are quite important, this does not guarantee that the software delivered to the end user is still legitimate. We see why this is the case.

## Digital software signature scheme
```

nit: missing empty line

A software digital signature's scheme consists of the following mechanisms:

- **Key creation** : a way to **generate** public/private key pairs.

> - **Sign** : an algorithm to attach a signer to the software

Reviewer: Should this be?

```suggestion
- **Sign** : an algorithm to attach a signature to the software
```

- **Verification** : a way to verify the signature with help of the public key.

> Some very popular schemes are ECDSA, RSA, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some commonly used schemes are ECDSA, RSA, etc.
```

> In the simplest way, A private key is used/generated by the owner (company or developer) to sign the artifacts and hopefully remains safe and secret!. On the other hand, A public key as the name implies is something publicly available(also generated by the owner).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the simplest way, a private key is used/generated by the owner (company or developer) to sign the artifacts and hopefully remains safe and secret!. On the other hand, A public key as the name implies is something publicly available(also generated by the owner).
```

Reviewer 2: also mind the `!.` combo which isnt intended I bet.

There are three main challenges when using public/private key pairs to sign software artifacts: 

- Distributions
- Storage
- Key Revocation

> Storing private keys somewhere safe is a big challenge, even for big companies that are prone to make mistakes, take [Samsung](https://www.securityweek.com/thousands-secret-keys-found-leaked-samsung-source-code/) for example. When a private key is compromised, re-distributing a new key to the users is a big deal of challenge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Storing private keys somewhere safe is a big challenge, even for big companies that are prone to make mistakes. When a private key is compromised, re-distributing a new key to the users is a big deal of challenge.
```

I wouldn't point to any company here.

Sigstore has its own OIDC identity provider which is based on [Dex](https://github.com/dexidp/dex) and supports email-based OIDC providers Google, Github and Microsoft.

Sigstore has a built in transparency logs service that records signed metadata to a ledger. Users can query this ledger and find useful information about the software they use. We will explore this in detail in next sections.

##  How does Cosign work?

There are two ways to use the Cosign signing mechanism. The recommended approach is what is called [keyless signing](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/keyless/#overview).

In a nutshell a **short-lived** certificate is generated and a transparency log is created in [Rekor](https://rekor.sigstore.dev/) server.

Here are the steps that Cosign take:

- First Cosign generates public and private keys.
- Then it sends the user into an OIDC login flow.
- Cosign sends a request to [Fulcio](https://docs.sigstore.dev/fulcio/overview/) with the token\_id from the previous step.

> - Created certificate is returned to the user.

Reviewer: How is the key pair (pub/private) used in this flow?

Reviewer 2: Let's get this one resolved - @mhrabovcin all clear?

Author: @mhrabovcin 
I expanded on the private/public key usage [here](https://github.com/mesosphere/d2iq-engineering-blog/pull/68/commits/f7b2e45ff9a628696999dcf93d09af365d3e8f66) what do you think?

---
authors: ["azhovan"]
title: "Digital Signature With Cosign"
date: 2023-04-26T12:00:00+02:00
featured: false
tags: ["cosgin", "rekor", "fulcio", "sigstore", "openssf", "container", "helm", "github", "kubernetes"]
excerpt: Signing Software Artifacts using Cosign
feature_image: feature.png
---

# Software Digital Signature

> In this article, we will explore signing artifacts such as containers, local files or OCI registry binaries etc, and we will see how your artifacts can be signed in Github actions and Kubernetes..

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this article, we explore signing artifacts such as containers, local files or OCI registry binaries etc., and we see how your artifacts can be signed in Github actions and Kubernetes.
```

## Introduction

> Cosign is one slice of the bigger umbrella [Sigstore, an ecosystem](https://www.sigstore.dev/) under the [openSSF](https://openssf.org/) community, aiming to improve software's security supply chain. Its approach is pretty unique, simple yet powerful. In fact simplicity is one of the Sigstore fundamentals. It has been designed with transparency in mind, that is, it's been accepted very quickly by the community in a very short period of time i.e [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2022/05/03/kubernetes-1-24-release-announcement/#signing-release-artifacts), [Arch linux](https://archlinux.org/packages/community/x86_64/cosign/), [Github](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/cosign-installer). Few months ago it got its very first GA and with a stable API now companies can consider it in production and benefit from it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Cosign is one slice of the bigger umbrella [Sigstore, an ecosystem](https://www.sigstore.dev/) under the [openSSF](https://openssf.org/) community, aiming to improve software's security supply chain. Its approach is pretty unique, simple yet powerful. In fact simplicity is one of the Sigstore fundamentals. It is designed with transparency in mind, that is, its been accepted very quickly by the community in a very short period of time i.e [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2022/05/03/kubernetes-1-24-release-announcement/#signing-release-artifacts), [Arch linux](https://archlinux.org/packages/community/x86_64/cosign/), [Github](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/cosign-installer). A few months ago it got its very first GA, and, with a stable API, now companies can consider it in production and benefit from Cosign.
```

## What problem does it solve?

> Softwares widely consists of distributed artifacts and these artifacts are updated quite frequently. Companies and developers that build on top of these artifacts may expose their users to threats and vulnerabilities. This is where the [digital signature](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_signature) comes to the picture, and by its definition it is an scheme to help users to verify the legitimacy of the downloaded software.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Software widely consists of distributed artifacts, which are updated quite frequently. Companies and developers that build on top of these artifacts might expose their users to threats and vulnerabilities. This is where the [digital signature](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_signature) comes into the picture. By definition, this is a scheme to help users verify the legitimacy of the downloaded software.
```

Two major topics in digitally signing software artifacts are **integrity** and **authenticity**, respectfully ensuring that signed data has not been altered and originates from the signer. While these are quite important, this does not guarantee that the software delivered to the end user is still legitimate. We see why this is the case.

## Digital software signature scheme

A software digital signature's scheme consists of the following mechanisms:

- **Key creation** : a way to **generate** public/private key pairs.
- **Sign** : an algorithm to attach a signature to the software

> - **Verification** : a way to verify the signature with help of the public key.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Verification** : a way to verify the signature with help of the public key
```

> Some commonly used schemes are ECDSA, RSA, etc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some commonly used schemes are ECDSA, RSA, and so on.
```

> In the simplest way, a private key is used/generated by the owner (company or developer) to sign the artifacts and hopefully remains safe and secret!. On the other hand, A public key as the name implies is something publicly available(also generated by the owner).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the simplest way, a private key is used/generated by the owner (company or developer) to sign the artifacts and, hopefully, remains safe and secret!. On the other hand, a public key as the name implies is something publicly available(also generated by the owner).
```

There are three main challenges when using public/private key pairs to sign software artifacts: 

- Distributions
- Storage
- Key Revocation

Storing private keys somewhere safe is a big challenge, even for big companies that are prone to make mistakes. When a private key is compromised, re-distributing a new key to the users is a big deal of challenge.

##  Why is Sigstore different?

> Instead of keys, Sigstore relies on identity. It is important because owner identity remains the same, regardless of whether its private key has been compromised. This immediately removes the necessity of public key discovery and distribution.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Instead of keys, Sigstore relies on identity. This is important because owner identity remains the same, regardless if its private key has been compromised. This immediately removes the necessity of public key discovery and distribution!
```

> Sigstore has its own OIDC identity provider which is based on [Dex](https://github.com/dexidp/dex) and supports email-based OIDC providers Google, Github and Microsoft.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sigstore has its own OIDC identity provider which is based on [Dex](https://github.com/dexidp/dex) and supports email-based OIDC providers Google, Github, and Microsoft.
```

> Sigstore has a built in transparency logs service that records signed metadata to a ledger. Users can query this ledger and find useful information about the software they use. We will explore this in detail in next sections.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sigstore has a built in transparency logs service that records signed metadata to a ledger. Users can query the ledger and find useful information about the software they use. We explore this in detail in following sections.
```

##  How does Cosign work?

There are two ways to use the Cosign signing mechanism. The recommended approach is what is called [keyless signing](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/keyless/#overview).

> In a nutshell a **short-lived** certificate is generated and a transparency log is created in [Rekor](https://rekor.sigstore.dev/) server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In a nutshell a **short-lived** certificate is generated and a transparency log is created in the [Rekor](https://rekor.sigstore.dev/) server.
```

Here are the steps that Cosign take in details when you want to sign a new artifact:

**Signing Artifact**

> - Step 1): Cosign sends the user into an OIDC login flow and if authentication is successful, an OIDC ID token is returned.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Step 1): Cosign sends the user into an OIDC login flow and, if authentication is successful, an OIDC ID token is returned.
```

- Step 2): Cosign generates a private key in [memory](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/blob/a8f57b66e8ad96ba13541dadc3bd47ae0c9a0c67/cmd/cosign/cli/sign/sign.go#L543).
- Step 3): Cosign sends a request to [Fulcio](https://docs.sigstore.dev/fulcio/overview/), the Sigstore certificate authority, with the user's public key and token\_id from the previous step.
- Step 4): Fulcio returns a short-lived code signing certificate containing the user's identity metadata (e.g. email) and public key to Cosign that is [valid for 10 minutes](https://github.com/sigstore/fulcio/blob/d54330c45f9c271fdf5b9d7eebe08284a700387f/pkg/ca/common.go#L43). 
- Step 5): Cosign signs the artifact and generates a signature.

> - Step 6): Cosign adds a new record to [Rekor](https://docs.sigstore.dev/rekor/overview/), the Sigstore transparency log with the signature and certificate from previous steps.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Step 6): Cosign adds a new record to [Rekor](https://docs.sigstore.dev/rekor/overview/), the Sigstore transparency log, with the signature and certificate from previous steps.
```

> - Step 7): Rekor returns back a bundle timestamped and signed with it's public key that contains the user public key and signature to the Cosign.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Step 7): Rekor returns back a bundle timestamped and signed with its public key, which contains the user public key and signature to the Cosign.
```

Note that when you sign an artifact like a container, this information is attached to the artifact by Cosign. 

**Verification Signature**

> I mentioned that the certificate generated by Cosign is only valid for 10 minutes and you may be wondering how this very likely expired certificate can be used by the users to verify artifacts? 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
I mentioned that the certificate generated by Cosign is only valid for 10 minutes. You may be wondering how this very likely expired certificate can be used by the users to verify artifacts.
```

> The verification process is different from normal certification validation for example TLS verification that probably you are more familiar with.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The verification process is different from normal certification validation, for example TLS verification that you are likely more familiar with.
```

What matters in the verification process is:
- Verify that Rekor signed the artifact with a specific timestamp for a specific identity.
- Verify that the signature is valid using the artifact and the user's public key. 

> The **second** option is the classic way, you can still use the private key to sign your software by providing it during the signing and use your public key to verify it. We will see these in action in next sections.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The **second** option is the classic way, you can still use the private key to sign your software by providing it during the signing, and then use your public key to verify it. We will see these in action in next sections.
```

##  What does Sigstore sign?

> A wide range of software artifacts, OCI compliant artifacts, Git tags, Blobs, Tekton bundles, WASM, etc. for more details on this check the [documentation](https://docs.sigstore.dev/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A wide range of software artifacts, OCI compliant artifacts, Git tags, Blobs, Tekton bundles, WASM, and so on, for more details on this check the [documentation](https://docs.sigstore.dev/).
```

##  Examples

- [Signing container image](#signing-a-container-image)
- [Signing OCI binary file](#signing-oci-registry-binaries)
- [Signing local binary](#signing-local-binaries)
- [Github actions integration](#github-integrations)
- [Github Integration](#github-actions-integration)
- [Kubernetes integration](#kubernetes-integration)

## Signing a container image:

> In this section we create a container, sign it and then verify its signature by using Cosign.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this section we create a container, sign it, and then verify its signature by using Cosign.
```

> To keep our example even more close to the real world scenario, we will publish our signed container image into the github OCI registry. We will also see how to sign container images using **github actions.**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To keep our example close to a real world scenario, we publish our signed container image into the github OCI registry. We also see how to sign container images using **github actions.**
```

> In this demo we use [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) to create the container, make sure you have it installed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this demo we use [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) to create the container, so make sure you have it installed.
```

> To install cosign you also can follow the steps in [official documentation](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation/)based on your environment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To install cosign you can also follow the steps in [official documentation](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation/)based on your environment.
```

> Pre requisites

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Prerequisites**
```

> In order to publish our container into the Github container registry we need to first authenticate against the Github Container registry. To do so you'll need an access token. You can use a personal access token(classic) or in short **PAT** to do the authentication. Each access token has a scope that is a list of permissions that you'll grant it. We need following permissions:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To publish our container into the Github container registry, we need to first authenticate against the Github Container registry. To do so you'll need an access token. You can use a personal access token (classic) or in short **PAT** to do the authentication. Each access token has a scope that is a list of permissions that you'll grant it. We need following permissions:
```

- read:packages
- write:packages
- delete:packages

> To create personal access token follow [Github documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token)and when you generated one, save it in an environment variable:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To create personal access token follow [Github documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token). When you generated one, save it in an environment variable:
```

```bash
export PAT=Your_Token
```

> you can go ahead and sign in to Container registry by running following command (USERNAME is your username in github)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Go ahead and sign in to the Container registry by running the following command (USERNAME is your username in github):
```

```bash
echo $PAT | docker login ghcr.io -u USERNAME --password-stdin

> Login Succeeded
```

> It is important to note that the container registry service is at **ghcr.io** , we will use this host later when we tag and publish our container.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is important to note that the container registry service is at **ghcr.io**; we use this host later when we tag and publish our container.
```

Step1: Creating the container

> lets create a new directory called hello, and put our Dockerfile there. I use Ubuntu as my operating system so I will create this directory in the `/tmp` directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create a new directory called hello, and put our Dockerfile there. I use Ubuntu as my operating system so I will create this directory in the `/tmp` directory.
```

```bash 
cd /tmp 
mkdir hello && cd hello 
```

Now lets create the Dockerfile, it is fairly simple and enough for our demonstration too. Go ahead and use your editor of choice! (I use vim)
```bash
vim Dockerfile 
```

Copy and paste the following commands into the Dockerfile

```bash
FROM alpine
CMD ["echo", "Hello!"]
```

Step2: Building the container

> To build the container in the same directory that Dockerfile exist, run following command

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To build the container in the same directory that Dockerfile exist, run following command:
```

```bash
docker build -t hello .
```

Step3: Tagging the container

Find the ID for the hello image that we just built by running following command in your terminal:

```bash
$ docker images

REPOSITORY  TAG   	   IMAGE ID   	    CREATED     	   SIZE
hello       latest         95ecc945e8c8     1 minutes ago          7.05MB

```

it is important to note how content is organized within the Github container registry. Content is stored in the **ghcr.io/\<NAMESPACE\>/\<ARTIFACT\>** format. **NAMESPACE** , in this situation, represents the name of a user account or GitHub organization. I am using my personal github user so command is like the following:

```bash 
docker tag 95ecc945e8c8 ghcr.io/azhovan/hello:latest
```

Step3: Publishing the container
```bash 
docker push ghcr.io/azhovan/hello:latest
```

> when you publish a package for the first time, the default visibility is private, we don't need to change this for this demo.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you publish a package for the first time, the default visibility is private. We don't need to change this for this demo.
```

Step4: Signing the container

> Now that the container is in the Github container registry we are ready to sign our very container, and push that signature to the registry

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now that the container is in the Github container registry, we are ready to sign our very container, and then push that signature to the registry.
```

```bash 
cosign sign ghcr.io/azhovan/hello:latest 
```

You are asked to accept that you agree with having your information in the transparency log. 
```shell
Generating ephemeral keys...
Retrieving signed certificate...

    	Note that there may be personally identifiable information associated with this signed artifact.
    	This may include the email address associated with the account with which you authenticate.
    	This information will be used for signing this artifact and will be stored in public transparency logs and cannot be removed later.

By typing 'y', you attest that you grant (or have permission to grant) and agree to have this information stored permanently in transparency logs.
Are you sure you would like to continue? [y/N]
```

> Type `y` and you will be navigated to the OIDC workflow we mentioned earlier. Sign in to sigstore using you github account

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Type `y` and you will be navigated to the OIDC workflow we mentioned earlier. Sign in to sigstore using you github account.
```

![oidc login flow](singin-oidc.png)

Since I am signing a private package I am asked by cosign again. It is fine and type **y**

```shell 
WARNING: "ghcr.io/azhovan/hello" appears to be a private repository, please confirm uploading to the transparency log at "https://rekor.sigstore.dev"
Are you sure you would like to continue? [y/N]
```

> Now we should be able to see that a SHA has been added to the tag

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now we should be able to see that an SHA has been added to the tag.
```

```shell
Using payload from: d2iq.txt
Enter password for private key:  

       Note that there may be personally identifiable information associated with this signed artifact.
       This may include the email address associated with the account with which you authenticate.
       This information will be used for signing this artifact and will be stored in public transparency logs and cannot be removed later.

By typing 'y', you attest that you grant (or have permission to grant) and agree to have this information stored permanently in transparency logs.
Are you sure you would like to continue? [y/N] y
tlog entry created with index: 16056076
MEUCIEaTpRK/nsBLGvxg1aYy9hHp4CCHj2rnkUOY3wdPbe7fAiEAw2nZHX9b3kFu13L5fd3rvgk0cozHl5JpJ7+NpxbfylM=
```
Notice that `MEUCIEaTpRK/nsBLGvxg1aYy9hHp4CCHj2rnkUOY3wdPbe7fAiEAw2nZHX9b3kFu13L5fd3rvgk0cozHl5JpJ7+NpxbfylM=` is the signature content that is required for verification.

To verifying the signature, use public key with the do as follows:
```shell 
cosign verify-blob --key cosign.pub main --signature=MEUCIEaTpRK/nsBLGvxg1aYy9hHp4CCHj2rnkUOY3wdPbe7fAiEAw2nZHX9b3kFu13L5fd3rvgk0cozHl5JpJ7+NpxbfylM=
```

## Github Integrations

> You can generate public/private key pairs and store them directly on GitHub actions's secret. The benefit of this is to save these keys directly into your Github settings without being copied into your browser or terminal or disk.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can generate public/private key pairs and store them directly on GitHub actions's secret. The benefit of this is to save these keys directly into your Github settings without being copied into your browser, terminal, or disk.
```

```

This will create three actions secret `COSIGN_PASSWORD`, `COSIGN_PRIVATE_KEY`, `COSIGN_PUBLIC_KEY`

![github integration](gh_integration.png)

## Github actions Integration

Generate private/public key pair for your project and save them into your actions like what mentioned above in [Github Integrations](#github-integrations)
```bash
cosign generate-key-pair github://<owner>/<project>
```

Create new workflow or add a new step to your existing one like the following:

```yaml
jobs:
  build:
  steps:
      ..
        - uses: sigstore/cosign-installer@main
        …
        …
        - name: Write signing key to disk (only needed for `cosign sign --key`)
            run: echo "${{ secrets.COSIGN_PRIVATE_KEY }}" > cosign.key
                   …

                   …
        - name: Sign container image
          run: |
            cosign sign --key cosign.key \
                -a "workflow=${{ github.workflow }}" \ # <- this is an annotation 
             	-a "repo=${{ github.repository }}" \   # <- this is an annotation 
             	ghcr.io/your-org/your-repo:some-tag
          env:
            COSIGN_PASSWORD: ${{ secrets.COSIGN_PASSWORD }}
```

> That is it!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
That's it!
```
